---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Refine 1.3: "
date:   2020-12-18 16:00:00
categories: long
type: blog
tags: 
---

## First Refinement of Web Log: Part One

### What changes have been made?

I've made most of the desired changes to the website, with exception of JS additions and other more advanced things. I've been hesitant to post while I was working on the blog, I am coping by blaming the fact I add posts by committing them as a change to the github repository, and if I did that I may as well be implementing site updates. The changes are, in brief, as follows:

- **Tag System:** asdfasdfsdfsdfs


I've yet to work on the scripts (for template generation, JS image captions, image compression), and the tag generation system that uses a python script is for the most part still as ugly as ever. In fact, I'm still trying to figure out what the most effective method would be for this. Rake tasks have been mentioned a few times in information I read, as an all in one solution for managing and updating things, so I might look at that.

### Procedural Conclusions

Here's a quote from my notes on the previous refinement, predicting javascript usage: 

> "i think I will penetrate the javascript hymen but proceed with no further strokes. I will do a dark-mode toggle, to change colours. There seem to be a variety of ways to accomplish such a feature without JS, but at least for now they blast past the functional lines i'm trying to walk in a simple github pages hosted setup, so i am going to comprise on my ethics. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58233592/dark-mode-without-javascript"