---
layout: post
title:  "Let's Play The Bible: Leviticus 1-27"
date:   2020-11-23 09:39:00
categories: long
type: religion
tags: God bible Christ book religion Christianity sacrament jewish circumcision antiquity
---

## Let's Play The Bible: Leviticus 1-27

### Preface

The next step in the canon of books is Leviticus. I am still reading & listening at a steady and habitual pace via ["YouVersion"](https://www.youversion.com/the-bible-app/) app whole-bible plan. When I am thinking of Leviticus now, part-way through the book of Numbers, I can't honestly say much comes to mind. I feel like I retained very little - the nature of this books content has something to do with it, at least fortifying my passive synaptic response. All in all this seems like a [very clerical book](https://www.biblestudytools.com/leviticus/), but hopefully refreshing my memory will reveal something more than divine administrative guidelines and human resource management.

Before I start using online resources and tools along with other information in the app, what is it that I can recall? I remember a lot of reference to "burnt offerings", a "sweet savour", the Tabernacle receiving some further attention since the previous book and I think there is something about blood sacrifice, probably animals. Then of course there is the outline of circumcision as some kind of sacrament which is still adhered to by jewish people today, as well as much of the USA, for some reason.

### Debriefing

After the Exodus, the Israelites have camped out at Mount Sinai. Here they begin living and prospering, while in parallel Moses continues his commune with God post-escape and receives many guidelines and standards to lay out to his people. These range from geopolitical tinged logistics all the way through to the medical procedure - before HillaryCare, ObamaCare and TrumpCare there was what we call MosesCare, you do not need a card for this guidance and the premiums are nil.

--
--
--

--

There is not much narrative to map out, unlike previous sections. So we might well proceed with taking a look into my looks taken of the entire document considered as one big bill, one big packet. I could split the billing up into the discrete sections that it appears to take the form of, but I won't.

## My Ragpickings

### Sweet Savour

Now here's a little something that got repeated too many times to count. "Sweet Savour", which grammatically appears at least to me to refer to a singular food item of excellent taste, appearing to be cooked (burnt) in many contexts. Something about this combination of words is disgusting to me for some reason, but I will accept that we are offering God a tasty snack in these regards. I am quite surprised to find little concrete information on this word combo via Google search, it seems to be in fact quite vague and something a Bible reader wouldn't spend to much time on. Indeed it could simply mean something that [smells good](http://kingjamesbibledictionary.com/StrongsNo/H7381/Savour) and perhaps just a word combo to help describe the tasteful smell of [torching a domesticated animal, as is acceptable](https://www.stempublishing.com/authors/davison/SWEETSVR.html#a1).



### World Health Organization

I turn my attention to the health guidelines and cleanliness instructions in the actual antiquated land of Israel, rather than the modern globohomo collective, to consider the fusion of ritual and spiritual with the physiological as outlined here. It does seem to run the entire gamut of cleanliness and good living across all firmaments, while reading between the lines seems like a old time medical manual - where illness might be more directly considered as directed and controlled by God in real-time.



### Circumcision

### The Tabernacle Loyalist

### Closing the Book